Update how to create a module guide (#1649)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/build-blockchain/module/blockchain-event.adoc

[source,typescript]
----
import { BaseEvent, EventQueuer } from 'lisk-sdk';
import { newHelloEventSchema } from '../schema';
import { NewHelloEventData } from '../types';

export class NewHelloEvent extends BaseEvent<NewHelloEventData> {
	public schema = newHelloEventSchema;

	public log(ctx: EventQueuer, data: NewHelloEventData): void {
		this.add(ctx, data, [data.senderAddress]);
	}
}
----

The new event class is created by extending from the `BaseEvent`.

Inside of the event class, we need to define the following properties:

* `schema`: Defines the schema of the event data
* `log()`: A method to emit the event and add it to the event queue of the node.

== Register the event

Now that we created a new event type, import it into the `module.ts` file, and register the event in the module constructor.

[source,typescript]
----
import { NewHelloEvent } from './events/new_hello';
// [...]

export class HelloModule extends BaseModule {
    // [...]

    public constructor() {
        super();
        // registration of stores and events
        // [...]
        this.events.register(NewHelloEvent, new NewHelloEvent(this.name));
    }
    // [...]
}
----

== Emit the event

> Now that the event is registered with the module, you can call the `log()` method of the event any time inside the module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the event is registered with the module, you can call the `log()` method of the event at any time inside the module.
```

In this example, we want to emit the "New Hello" event every time a "Create Hello" command was executed, so we add the corresponding logic to the `afterCommandExecute()` module lifecycle hook.

[source,typescript]
----
import { NewHelloEvent } from './events/new_hello';
import { createHelloSchema, CreateHelloParams, configSchema } from './schema';
// [...]

export class HelloModule extends BaseModule {
    // [...]

    public async afterCommandExecute(context: TransactionExecuteContext): Promise<void> {
        // Get the "New Hello" event
        const newHelloEvent = this.events.get(NewHelloEvent);
        // Decode the command parameters
        const createHelloParams: CreateHelloParams = codec.decode<CreateHelloParams>(createHelloSchema, context.transaction.params);
        context.logger.info(createHelloParams,"createHelloParams")
        // Use the log() method of the event to emit the event
        newHelloEvent.log(context.getMethodContext(), {
            senderAddress: context.transaction.senderAddress,
            message: createHelloParams.message
        });

    }
    // [...]
}
----

> Now, the module will create a new event everytime a "Create Hello" command is executed, and the event will include the sender address and the sent Hello message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, the module will create a new event every time a "Create Hello" command is executed, and the event will include the sender address and the sent Hello message.
```

Define the corresponding schema in `schema.ts`, too.

.hello/schema.ts
[source,typescript]
----
export const newHelloEventSchema = {
	$id: '/hello/events/new_hello',
	type: 'object',
	required: ['senderAddress', 'message'],
	properties: {
		senderAddress: {
			dataType: 'bytes',
			fieldNumber: 1,
		},
		message: {
			dataType: 'string',
			fieldNumber: 2,
		},
	},
};
----

Create a new file inside the `events/` folder of the module, and import the above defined interface and schema.
To create the event class, also import the `BaseEvent` and `EventQueuer` from the `lisk-sdk`.

.hello/events/new_hello.ts
[source,typescript]
----
import { BaseEvent, EventQueuer } from 'lisk-sdk';
import { newHelloEventSchema } from '../schema';
import { NewHelloEventData } from '../types';

export class NewHelloEvent extends BaseEvent<NewHelloEventData> {
	public schema = newHelloEventSchema;

	public log(ctx: EventQueuer, data: NewHelloEventData): void {
		this.add(ctx, data, [data.senderAddress]);
	}
}
----

The new event class is created by extending from the `BaseEvent`.

Inside of the event class, we need to define the following properties:

* `schema`: Defines the schema of the event data

> * `log()`: A method to emit the event and add it to the event queue of the node.

Reviewer 2: the BaseEvent has function `add` and directly using `add` is an option as well.
no schema just means there is no custom data, but you can still signal something happened by logging an event

> * `log()`: A method to emit the event and add it to the event queue of the node.

Author: thanks, I updated the code and descriptions accordingly

        // [...]
        this.events.register(NewHelloEvent, new NewHelloEvent(this.name));
    }
    // [...]
}
----

== Emit the event

Now that the event is registered with the module, you can call the `log()` method of the event any time inside the module.

In this example, we want to emit the "New Hello" event every time a "Create Hello" command was executed, so we add the corresponding logic to the `afterCommandExecute()` module lifecycle hook.

[source,typescript]
----
import { NewHelloEvent } from './events/new_hello';
import { createHelloSchema, CreateHelloParams, configSchema } from './schema';
// [...]

export class HelloModule extends BaseModule {
    // [...]

    public async afterCommandExecute(context: TransactionExecuteContext): Promise<void> {
        // Get the "New Hello" event
        const newHelloEvent = this.events.get(NewHelloEvent);
        // Decode the command parameters
        const createHelloParams: CreateHelloParams = codec.decode<CreateHelloParams>(createHelloSchema, context.transaction.params);
        context.logger.info(createHelloParams,"createHelloParams")
        // Use the log() method of the event to emit the event

>         newHelloEvent.log(context.getMethodContext(), {

Author: hmm, if I only pass the context, it complains the following: `Argument of type 'TransactionExecuteContext' is not assignable to parameter of type 'EventQueuer'.   Types of property 'eventQueue' are incompatible.`

>         newHelloEvent.log(context.getMethodContext(), {

Reviewer 2: ah that is a bug, will create an issue

>         newHelloEvent.log(context.getMethodContext(), {

Author: Ok, in that case I already updated it to `context` in the example code and guide

            senderAddress: context.transaction.senderAddress,
            message: createHelloParams.message
        });

    }
    // [...]
}
----

Now, the module will create a new event everytime a "Create Hello" command is executed, and the event will include the sender address and the sent Hello message.

NOTE: An example of how to listen to a specific event can be found in the guide xref:{url_build_plugin}[].

> ////

Author: yes, we can. 

Btw `////` indicates, that this content is currently commented out :)

> ////

Reviewer 2: yea I notice on the view (at first i was wondering why it doesn't show up 😸
